arcturus a huge red star it's just
bursting from inside out the red sea of
plasma on its surface
rages and pulsates the star burns
anything that comes close to it
and now arcturus is gone
but at the same moment it reappears at
the center of our solar system
replacing the sun what we see in the sky
isn't a small yellow dot anymore but a
giant red ball
it's 25 times wider and 30 percent
heavier than the sun
even though arcturus is a little cooler
it's still a total nightmare for earth
the distance from our planet to the star
is now 25 times
less all the water in the oceans and
rivers
begins to evaporate what used to be rain
forests
are quickly turning into a lifeless
desert
but sunsets and sunrises now look
amazing
imagine yourself on the roof of the
empire state building watching the sun
sunrise
first you see the light over the horizon
it almost blinds you
because arcturus is 110 times brighter
than the sun
then the star gradually climbs over the
surface
the thick dot on the horizon gets wider
and wider
it continues to grow until the red star
is
everything you can see arcturus is now
so close
that you can even see storms of hot
plasma on its surface
there are periodic outbursts and mass
ejections
huge amounts of matter are ejected from
the surface of the star
at speeds of up to 1200 miles per second
the matter takes the form of a loop
attached to the star
at both ends and you have to wear a
super advanced spacesuit to be able to
observe such a sunrise
life on earth ceased to exist long ago
under these conditions
and it's going to get worse over time
because every eight days
arcturus's brilliance increases and soon
our planet will become more like venus
it's so close to the sun
that the high temperature makes any life
there impossible
okay let's let our planet cool down a
bit
and put proxima centauri in the center
of our solar system
it's not a red giant but a red dwarf
this star
is almost seven times smaller than the
sun and almost nine times lighter
now our oceans and rivers are not
evaporating
but freezing over forests and jungles
are covered with snow
in about a week there won't be a single
place on earth where the temperature is
above freezing
even plants that are used to the cold
will cease to exist
they mostly feed on the sun's energy now
they begin to starve
but there will still be water deep
beneath the ice layer
it'll be heated by the hot core of our
planet microorganisms will still be able
to survive
it's much darker on earth too it's like
an endless twilight here
oh and we can barely see the moon the
thing is
it doesn't produce its own light but
reflects it from the bright sun
with proxima centauri instead the moon
will lose its brightness
hop on the bright side of life together
with our brand new tees hoodies and more
click the link to pick your choice but
an even bigger problem
would be with our orbit the sun has a
certain gravitational force
and it keeps us just in the sweet
habitable zone where we're not too hot
and not too cold proxima centauri's
gravity is much weaker
and earth is slowly drifting away from
the star
we now run the risk of encountering
asteroids flying through space
or even other planets but the worst case
scenario
is if proxima centauri simply can't hold
our planet
and we fly away into dark space then
you can forget about any forms of life
here
now let's put sirius at the center of
our solar system
it's the brightest star in our night sky
it's only 70 percent bigger than the sun
but almost twice as hot so it's glow is
not only bright
it's sizzling and its light is not
yellow
but somewhere between blue and white you
couldn't go out in the city without
sunglasses
or serious glasses
still you wouldn't want to walk the
streets where the asphalt is boiling
anyway
you could literally fry eggs on the curb
of course
by this time all life on earth has long
since disappeared
but it's not just because of the
temperature sirius
emits enormous amounts of radiation our
atmosphere serves as a shield against
the sun
but in the case of sirius that shield
wouldn't be enough
now why don't we take a more bizarre
approach and make ourselves
a double star system these are two stars
that revolve around a common center
and there's our earth safe and sound
it's all about the size and brightness
of the stars
these two aren't too big and they give
off as much light as our sun
all that matters to us is that our
planet is in the safe zone of the double
star system
at sunrise you first see one star appear
from below the horizon
and then a couple of minutes later the
other
the only problem is that this beauty may
soon explode
with enormous force in binary systems
one star is always heavier than its
companion
sooner or later it starts pulling matter
away from the smaller star
gradually the bigger star just eats its
neighbor then the big brother can reach
a critical mass
and explode this explosion would be
about as strong as a supernova
it would destroy our entire solar system
the light from this explosion would be
visible for hundreds of light years away
and after that there would be a huge
nebula in the place of our star system
it's stardust and particles that are
left from our world
going to the realm of the crazy now
a black hole yes there's one at the
center of our solar system now
we know black holes are scary mysterious
objects
that pull in everything in their path
but even around a black hole
there is a habitable zone you just have
to be far enough away
so that it doesn't drag you down into
its black abyss
mercury and venus would be too close to
the black hole
so most likely they'd be torn apart and
then head for the event horizon
this is the last stop before hitting the
singularity
the heart of the black hole there are
only two
problems light and time a black hole
pulls light in
instead of emitting it so the earth will
quickly become
dark and cold and time goes slower
around heavy objects
near a black hole one second can be
equal to weeks
or even months away in outer space we
won't feel this difference
but the entire universe around us will
develop faster
relative to us any object can become a
black hole
if it's compressed to a certain size for
example
the sun can become one if it shrunk to a
width of 3.7 miles
and even the earth if you squeeze it to
a width of 0.7 inches
it becomes a black hole oh
now there's some little rock lurking in
the center of our solar system
it's a neutron star it's about 18 miles
wide
some meteorites are much bigger than
that but it has a mass
comparable to the sun so its
gravitational force is about the same
and our planet's orbit is intact but the
problem is
that neutron stars emit next to no
visible light
so it's now permanent night on earth
still it gets very hot here when a
neutron star is born
it can be several times hotter than the
sun at first
but it quickly cools down to the
temperature we're used to
so there's a chance that all life on
earth hasn't yet been scorched
another problem is that these little
guys are rapidly spinning
and can become pulsars it's kind of like
a powerful spotlight on two sides of a
spinning star
neutron stars also eject radiation at
tremendous speeds
these rays will make our planet
literally sterile
no life form would be able to exist
under these conditions
and now it's time for the biggest star
ever known
stevenson 218. this red giant is
2150 times larger than the sun
and if we place it at the center of our
solar system its edge will lie on
saturn's orbit
so mercury venus earth mars and jupiter
are already swallowed by the huge star
saturn
uranus and neptune are roasting like
chestnuts on a fire
and will soon evaporate in fact
this could happen to our sun as well the
older it gets
the redder and bigger it becomes it'll
eventually run out of its fuel
hydrogen and the sun will start to burn
heavier elements in its core
this will cause it to expand then we'll
see more beautiful sunsets and sunrises
but the temperature will become too high
in theory
the sun will get so big that it'll
swallow the earth
and then it'll explode in a supernova
leaving nothing
of our entire solar system behind shiny